[1;33;44mÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ[0m
[1;33;44m³ [37mGALACTIC EMPIRE ge-next 0.2   [1;31;44mşşşşşşşşş What's new this release şşşşşşşşş  [1;33m³[0m
[1;33;44mÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ[0m
[1;37m
ge-next RELEASE NOTES

ge-next is an updated and expanded version of the classic Galactic Empire
by Mike Murdock.

https://manicpop.org/ge-next  https://github.com/manicpop/ge-next
https://discord.gg/SqhYmZvWsn  anthony@manicpop.org
Please contact with me thoughts and suggestions.

=== 0.2 === in progress

The main focus of 0.2 is NPC behavior:
* A legacy Galactic Empire bug that keeps Cybs from pursuing you if you are
  the only player logged in has be resolved.
* The options NUMSHIPS and MAXDROIDS have been removed, as well as the routine
  to create to random classes of NPCs to fill the game up to the amount of
  NUMSHIPS. The game will create only the amount of NPCs you specify with the
  MAKE options, and allocates memory for only that amount.
* Four new Cybertron classes replace the Cybertrons and Cyberquads: the
  Cyber-Interceptor, Cyber-Destroyer, Cyber-Cruiser, and Cyber-Dreadnought.
  The Cyber-Base is still around.
* New non-Cyb NPCs (droids) have been added, and existing ones reworked.
* Some non-Cybertron NPCs will send a distress message if they are being
  attacked by Cybertrons or users. If you destroy their attacker, you will
  receive bonus points. They will also remember you helped them and treat you
  accordingly in the future.
* While an NPC is in distress, you won't be able to hit it with phasers
  (unless you're the attacker), so that you don't actually take out the ship
  you're trying to protect. If you want to attack the ship instead of rescuing
  it, setting your weapons lock to that ship will override this behavior.
* NPC numbering has been reworked. All Cybertrons are all named "Cybertron
  IxNNNN" where I is the class of Cybertron (higher number, more powerful)
  and NNNN is identifying number.
* The Cybertrons now are assigned random shield and phaser classes, between
  50 and 100% of the max specified in the configuration file.
* Cybertrons will pursue other NPCs if their CATK and NATK values are set that
  way (and users are in the game to see it).
* Faction codes: New to the ship configuration is the faction code. Users
  should always be set to 0, which will allow them to fire on anyone.
  Cybertrons should always be set to 1, and other NPCs have different codes.
  Faction codes higher than 0 can't damage other ships with the same code,
  which will keep Cybertrons from destroying each other with phasers if they
  are lined up in pursuit.
* Non-Cybertron factions will remember if you have attacked them and will
  respond accordingly in future encounters. Something to think about before
  destroying that NPC minding its own business.
* Loadout codes: Also new is the loadout code, which is used to identify the
  various classes of droid ships, so that droids can be added, removed,
  renamed, etc. This code will also be used for optional upgrades for user
  ships (coming soon).
* Cybertrons with a 0 acceleration rate (by default, only the Cyber-Base) are
  now excluded from any routines that involve pursuing other ships. This
  should fix several legacy bugs related to the Bases moving when they
  shouldn't.
* When entering the game or traveling through a wormhole, all current
  Cybertron pursuits for that player are dropped and the closest new ones are
  picked. This means when you enter the game, the closest Cybertrons to your
  position are dispatched, and when you go through a wormhole, the Cybertrons
  pursuing you will forget about you and the ones closest to your new
  location will pursue. If you destroy a Cybertron pursuing you or it gives
  up on you, the previous (somewhat) random behavior will still be used to
  pick a new pursuer. A new sysop command, SYS ASSIGNCYBS, can be used to
  trigger this behavior as well.
* The amount of gold on a Cybertron is still random, but it is now skewed
  toward larger amounts on bigger Cybertrons and smaller amounts on smaller
  ones.
* Cybertrons will now carry, and can use, zippers and missiles if they are
  configured to do so.
* The CYBNEW/DROIDNEW messages now display the actual bearing if the new ship
  is out of the player's scanner range, and the sector if within range. Thanks
  Dave Walton for the idea.
* The toughness level of Cybertrons has expanded to 0 through 4, corresponding
  to the five classes of Cybertron ships.
* CYBWHOOPS (the ability for a Cybertron to be prone to failure) has been
  removed in favor of the new toughness levels and random shield and phaser
  levels.
* GE_BE_NICE and GE_BE_EASY, the values that made the Cybertrons easier until
  you accumulated a certain number of kills, have also been removed in favor
  of these new levels.
* NPCs can no longer travel at above their maximum specified warp (except for
  Cybertrons in pursuit) or travel at fractional (non-integer) warp values.
* Cybertrons in long-range pursuit (the "hyperwarp" mode) will now show
  "??.??" for their speed when traveling at this speed, then immediately snap
  into a "normal" speed when reaching their destination.

Other stuff:
* A new ordnance report was added (REP ORD). This will list all incoming and
  outgoing projectiles as well as display how any mines and decoys you have
  deployed.
* The ship you have locked onto will be displayed with red highlights in the
  range scans and ordnance reports.
* Ships in distress will have green highlights.
* The Sysop ship was removed. "Hidden" ships might return in future versions.
* A bug that sometimes showed the wrong defaults in the planetary
  administration menu has been resolved.
* A bug that sometimes showed the wrong ship name in messages regarding decoys
  and cloaking has been resolved.
* If a ship bounces off the galactic perimeter, the size of the bounce
  backwards is now determined by the speed the ship is traveling when it hits.
  Ships will no longer be doubly damaged if they hit a corner (that is, cross
  the X boundary and Y boundary at the same time), but will be bounced in both
  directions. The ship will also be pointed directly toward sector 0 0 after
  the bounce. This should keep NPCs from destroying themselves by repeatedly
   running into the barrier.
* If you destroy another ship while you are low on space, gold is now
  prioritized, and you will collect as much as you can hold. You will also now
  collect the entire amount of gold (space permitting) from the ship you
  destroyed (all other items remain a random amount between 20% and 100% of
  the ship's contents).
* Damage factors (DAMF) have been set for each ship to make the larger and/or
  more powerful ones more difficult to damage.
* A phaser's effective damage is now factored by the DAMF value of the ship.
  The size (cargo capacity) of the ship is no longer part of the equation,
  bringing it into line with all other forms of damage. This should keep
  freighters from being nearly impossible to damage with phasers.
* A STOP command has been added, which can bring the ship to a complete stop
  even if the helm is damaged. If the helm isn't damaged, it's the same as
  entering WARP 0 or IMPULSE 0.
* If you accidentally issue the maintenance command while maintenance is in
  progress, you will be notified and not charged a second time.
* There is now an message shown to all users when a player exits.
* A WHO command was added (well, changed) to show a list of users online.
* The way missiles function has been changed. You can no longer "shake off"
  missiles, but you can outrun them. If you get far enough away from a
  missile, it will lose its lockon (you can use the new REP ORD to see their
  distance from you). Also, missiles' energy now decrease over time, so they
  will eventually run out of energy and sputter out. Missiles can now be
  charged between 2000 and 20000, drain your ship's flux by that complete
  amount, and the speed and maximum damage of missiles have both been
  increased to compensate for these changes (20000 is equivalent damage to
  50000 in GE classic). Also, a default of 5000 is now used if you don't
  specify an amount.
* When torpedoes or missiles fail to reach their target, the user is now
  notified.
* Several legacy bugs that allowed a ship's flux pile to roll over and go
  negative when out of flux pods have been fixed.
* "ALL" now works with the ATTACK command.
* Firing a phaser and not hitting anyone, getting hit by phaser with 0 damage,
  unsuccessfully attempting to fire torpedoes or missiles, or being the target
  of such an unsuccessful attempt will not set your "can't exit" timer.
* If torpedoes or missiles are locked onto you, this WILL set your "can't
  exit" timer.


